{https://www.espn.co.uk/f1/story/_/id/44514855/teen-andrea-kimi-antonelli-balances-f1-school-exams}
{A+ for effort Teenager Andrea Kimi Antonelli balances F1, school exams}
{Nate Saunders}
{04-03-2025}
{SUZUKA, Japan -- Teen Formula 1 sensation Andrea Kimi Antonelli has been dovetailing his rookie season with exam season at high school.

Antonelli, 18, is in the final year of study at Salvemini di Casalecchio di Reno Technical Institute in Bologna.

Despite an elevation to F1 this season as Lewis Hamilton's replacement at Mercedes he has opted to continue his studies.

Speaking to the Fast and the Curious podcast, Antonelli said: "It would be a shame just to quit on the last year of school. And also, my mum cares about it, so I will do it for her as well.

"I'm getting a lot of help from the school, I'm not going to lie, they're sending me stuff over but it's a big commitment."

Asked about his studies during media day at Suzuka, host of Sunday's Japanese Grand Prix, Antonelli said: "Yeah, definitely life at school has changed quite dramatically, I'm not going to lie."

Antonelli pointed to his school friends as a calming influence as he takes his first steps into the high-pressure environment of F1.

"I feel very lucky because my group of mates in my class, they've been treating me the same since last year's announcement," he added. "So I'm really happy and I feel really lucky because we have such a good relationship that whenever we go home we spend time together.

"It's really cool they treat me the same way. They've been really supportive as well. It's also really good to have a group of friends outside racing because they really help you as well to disconnect and to enjoy life in general.

"Also they are some way to recharge too, especially on the mental side because when I'm with them, I rarely think... I still think a bit about racing, but not as much as I would, just because being with them takes a bit my focus away.

"And it's nice because then when I go back in the car I feel better on that side."}