{https://www.espn.co.uk/f1/story/_/id/44515173/liam-lawson-determined-make-mark-f1-red-bull-demotion}
{Liam Lawson determined to make his mark in F1 after Red Bull demotion}
{Reuters}
{04-03-2025}
{Liam Lawson said he was surprised at being demoted by the Red Bull team after only two races of the new season but remained determined to make his mark in Formula 1 with the junior Racing Bulls team.

The 23-year-old New Zealander was appointed world champion Max Verstappen's teammate for this season with only 11 races as a stand-in under his belt but was last week shunted back to the Racing Bulls team and replaced by Yuki Tsunoda.

Lawson, who qualified 18th and failed to finish in Australia before qualifying last for the sprint and race in China, said he had no idea the axe would fall so soon and left Shanghai ready to prepare for the third round of the season in Japan.

"I had a phone call, basically saying that this was what was going to happen," he told reporters at Suzuka on Thursday. "It was something I wasn't expecting so early. It's something that obviously is not my decision and for me, it's about making the most of obviously this opportunity now and obviously still being Formula 1, I still have that."

Lawson had never raced in Melbourne or Shanghai and it was clearly a matter of regret that he was unable to show what he could do in the Red Bull at Suzuka, which he knows well from his time in Japan's Super Formula championship.

"That was something I was obviously looking forward to from the start, to be honest, to go to a track that I've been to before," he added. "Just have a proper sort of preparation, and I now have that. So it's exciting to be here at a track that's one of my favourite tracks to drive on. So yeah, I'm very excited."

Lawson clearly has the sympathy of Verstappen, who told reporters "it was not a mistake" that he had liked a social media posts criticising the swap decision as "panicky".

Lawson said the prospect of returning one day to Red Bull was "part of the conversation" when he got the news.

"I guess, in a way, that's great, but obviously I was already there starting the season," he said. "So look, whatever happens down the line is more or less how do I control what I control and that's the driving stuff. So where the future goes, honestly, at this point I'm not really thinking about too much."

The New Zealander was also reassured by how quickly things can change in Formula 1.

"If I look back a year ago, I had no seat, I was here a year ago, watching and wishing I was racing," he said. "So for me, the main thing is being in a car."}