{https://www.espn.com/f1/story/_/id/44753426/max-verstappen-says-red-bull-car-performance-hit-miss}
{Max Verstappen says Red Bull car performance is 'hit and miss'}
{Laurence Edmondson}
{04-19-2025}
{JEDDAH, Saudi Arabia -- Max Verstappen said the performance of his Red Bull remains "hit and miss" after he secured pole position for Sunday's Saudi Arabian Grand Prix.

The reigning champion has made no secret of the difficulties he has faced behind the wheel of his Red Bull this season, with his form fluctuating wildly over the last three races.

Two weeks ago at Suzuka he won the Japanese Grand Prix from pole position, but in Bahrain last week he was unable to qualify higher than seventh before finishing the race sixth.

This weekend in Saudi Arabia, he defied the odds with another remarkable qualifying lap to beat McLaren's Oscar Piastri to pole position by 0.010 seconds.

"I felt immediately more confident when I headed into qualifying," Verstappen said. "We made some minor changes to the car [after final practice], but they were clearly big enough to feel, and I think that's a bit the story of our car: it can be really hit and miss.

"When we get it right, I think it's competitive, of course. But, yeah, when we don't get it right, it's a lot more difficult.

"But around here, honestly, it's super hard because some corners, like, you want to try and be super close to the wall. Sometimes it works out. Sometimes it doesn't.

"Braking into Turn 22 is very bumpy, so you don't even see where you're going when you turn in. So it's very hard to get everything right.

"But, yeah, clearly, it was good enough. And, yeah, of course, in Q3, you risk everything a bit more."

Verstappen believes the biggest difference to Bahrain was the track layout and surface.

"There are a few more high-speed corners. The tarmac is completely different, which has a big influence on the tyres as well.

"Naturally, when you have tracks where you need a lot of rotation mid-corner, and long-duration corners, which you have in Bahrain, that's a big problem for us. Here, it just seems to be a little bit more competitive.

"I'm not saying that it's solved, but at least it gave me an opportunity to push a bit better and deal with the limitations that we have a bit better."}