{https://www.espn.co.uk/racing/f1/story/_/id/44406784/red-bull-replace-liam-lawson-yuki-tsunoda-reports}
{Red Bull to replace Liam Lawson with Yuki Tsunoda - sources}
{Nate Saunders}
{03-26-2025}
{Yuki Tsunoda will replace Red Bull's Liam Lawson at the Japanese Grand Prix, sources have confirmed to ESPN.

The remarkable switch, just two races into Lawson's time with the team, will be confirmed later this week once final details have been arranged.

Tsunoda will become reigning world champion Max Verstappen's third different teammate across the past four races -- Lawson had only just replaced Sergio Perez at the team.

Lawson will return to Racing Bulls, the company's junior team.

The move means Tsunoda, whose career has been strongly backed by outgoing Red Bull engine partner Honda, will make a storybook debut for the team at his home race, the Japanese Grand Prix.

While Red Bull has been known for ruthless driver calls before, this one has to be its most drastic.

Sources have told ESPN Lawson's awful start prompted drastic action. The Kiwi qualified 18th in Australia, before crashing out in the rain -- while Verstappen finished on the podium -- before qualifying last for both the sprint and the grand prix in China, finishing well outside of the points in both.

The decision was taken formally in a meeting at the start of this week, although sources have told ESPN Lawson left the Shanghai International Circuit last Sunday generally aware what was coming.

Red Bull team boss Christian Horner, known for a long time to be against the idea of promoting Tsunoda, has been impressed with the Japanese driver's strong form to kick off the year.

Tsunoda ran strongly in both races, only to finish out the points because of two separate strategic errors by his Racing Bulls team.

Many in Formula 1 felt Tsunoda, who has been with Red Bull's junior team since 2021, should have got the seat instead of Lawson this year anyway.

Lawson has officially been classed as a rookie this season, with just 11 race starts across two seasons to his name before 2025.

He will rejoin another rookie, Isack Hadjar, at his former team.}