{https://www.espn.co.uk/f1/story/_/id/44396200/red-bull-driver-swap-liam-lawson-demoted-rb-yuki-tsunoda-promoted}
{Red Bull driver swap Liam Lawson demoted to RB as Yuki Tsunoda promoted}
{Nate Saunders}
{03-27-2025}
{Red Bull has confirmed Yuki Tsunoda will replace Liam Lawson from the Japanese Grand Prix onwards, calling it a "purely sporting decision" to fix its troublesome car.

The swap, already reported by ESPN in the days since the Chinese Grand Prix and now confirmed on Thursday, sees Lawson drop back to the Racing Bulls junior outfit just two races.

Lawson was promoted to replace Sergio Pérez despite just 11 previous F1 starts to his name, while Tsunoda, who raced for the second team in 2021, was overlooked.

But Red Bull has now reversed that decision. The team quickly grew alarmed at how poorly Lawson performed with its new car, the RB21, which reigning world champion Max Verstappen has said is a long way off race-winning pace.

After Lawson failed to finish at the Australian Grand Prix it was an awful outing in China, where he qualified last for both the sprint and main race, prompting drastic action.

Horner acknowledged Red Bull's car is not where it needs to be and that Tsunoda's experience will now be invaluable.

"It has been difficult to see Liam struggle with the RB21 at the first two races and as a result we have collectively taken the decision to make an early switch," Horner said. "We came into the 2025 season, with two ambitions, to retain the World Drivers' Championship and to reclaim the World Constructors' title and this is a purely sporting decision.

"We acknowledge there is a lot of work to be done with the RB21 and Yuki's experience will prove highly beneficial in helping to develop the current car. We welcome him to the Team and are looking forward to seeing him behind the wheel of the RB21."

Tsunoda will become reigning world champion Verstappen's third different teammate across the last four races.

The promotion is a fairytale debut at his home race -- held at the famous Suzuka circuit.

Sources told ESPN that Red Bull's engine supplier Honda, also a long time backer of Tsunoda's career, helped facilitate the move.

It gives Honda the perfect opportunity to mark their title-winning partnership with Red Bull before becoming Aston Martin's exclusive engine supplier in 2026.

Lawson will return to the Racing Bulls team, where he debuted in 2023 as Daniel Ricciardo's injury sub and then full-time as a replacement for the Australian last season.

Horner said the team felt Lawson's F1 career development would be better served by the demotion.

Horner added: "We have a duty of care to protect and develop Liam and together, we see that after such a difficult start, it makes sense to act quickly so Liam can gain experience, as he continues his F1 career with Visa Cash App Racing Bulls, an environment and a Team he knows very well."

In stats: Lawson's Red Bull demotion

Lawson's Red Bull stint -- from his promotion to demotion -- lasted 99 days in total.

Tsunoda and Lawson have squared off on the same Grand Prix 13 times in their career. Tsunoda has had the edge over Lawson in all but one qualifying session that they've both participated in and has racked up more total points than the New Zealander, eight to six.

Lawson is the first driver to get zero points in his first two races for Red Bull since Ricciardo in 2014. Sebastian Vettel (2009), Mark Webber (2007) and Robert Doornos (2006) were also point-less in their first two races.

Tsunoda will be Verstappen's second teammate since winning the drivers' championship last season. Over the last 50 years, only one driver has managed to repeat as champion for the same constructor but with a different teammate, Alain Prost in 1986.

The last time a defending world champion had multiple teammates in a season was Nelson Piquet in 1984 with Brabham (Teo Fabi 1-5, 8, 10-15; Corrado Fabi 6-7, 9; Manfred Winkelhock 16)}